==CINELIVE (Cinelerra-CV Live DVD) Readme==

Version: 1.0 - 17-02-2016

Welcome to CINELIVE, a distribution that combines all of the different variants of Cinelerra
(a nonlinear video editing software for Linux) and various other programs for video editing.

CINELIVE is based on the upcoming Slackware 14.2, with a basic set of system programs and the XFCE desktop.

Included are six variants of Cinelerra for your own choosing:

1. Cinelerra-HV:
----------------
Cinelerra was originally developed by Adam Williams (formerly known as Jack Crossfire) at Heroine Virtual Ltd. This is what the HV stands for.
Unlike most of the free Open Source projects, the development of Cinelerra-HV isn't open to distributed collaboration and there is no support for the software.

Every few months, a release is being made on sourceforge.net - we've included the latest version (4.6.1) on this disc.

2. Cinelerra-CV:
----------------
CV stands for "Community Version". Just like this disc, Cinelerra-CV is being developed on cinelerra-cv.org.

The CV version applies bug fixes and enhancements from the community to the HV code.

Cinelerra-CV primarily focusses on the stability of the software.
Rather than implementing the latest cutting-edge technology, new features of the software are tested for a while and patches from the community have to be a approved by a core developer.

3. Cinelerra 5.0:
-----------------
Around March 2014 a new project emerged on cinelerra.org. It called itself "Cinelerra 5.0".
In this version, some of the features from Cinelerra-CV are included.

Cinelerra 5.0 also provides enhanced functionalities like BluRay and DVD rendering, improved V4L2 capturing and better file format detection.

It is only developed by one developer, William Morrow ("Good Guy") who has joined our community in December 2014, effectively quitting cinelerra.org.

4. Cinelerra-CV (j6t/merge-4):
------------------------------
Johannes Sixt' goal is to merge Cinelerra-HV with Cinelerra-CV to create one final version with all enhancements.

The version included on this disc is Cinelerra-HV 4.1 merged together with Cinelerra-CV.
This is not a stable variant for general use, but more of a quick look what might be in the future.

Bug reports are very welcome.

5. Cinelerra-CVA (akirad):
--------------------------
This variant by Paolo Rampino has a blend of the HV-like extended ffmpeg decoding, many of the fixes found in Cinelerra-CV 2.3 and much improved UI theming from the former Cinecutie project.

6. Cinelerra-CVE (einar):
-------------------------
Einar Rünkaru is working with the long-term goal of improving the core, fixing bugs and design flaws to get a stronger code, better designed to fit a community development.

This is his current development branch of Cinelerra. Like merge-4, it is not as stable as Cinelerra-CV, but provides a look of what might be available in future releases.


--


We've also included a couple of useful tools for video production on this disc:

- Cinelerra Whiper:
  
  This program can delete the configuration files of all Cinelerra variants. Some of them share the same preferences, which can create problems.

- Seven Gnomes
  
  This is a simple GTK2-based utility designed to simplify some tasks for working with Cinelerra.
  Seven Gnomes UI is based on drag-and-drop, so to handle files or directories you can just drop them at the Seven Gnomes window.
  Seven Gnomes calls mpeg3toc to index MPEG1/2 files, mencoder to convert video, and uses GTK functions to create Cinelerra-format index/toc-files from a sequence of images.

- FFMultiplex

  A little utility to multiplex audio and video streams with ffmpeg.
  Written by GlenMacArthur for AVLinux.

- ffDiaporama

  An application for creating video sequences consisting of:
  - titles, fixed or animated
  - images or photos, fixed or animated
  - movie clips
  - music
  
  These sequences are assembled into a slide show by means of transitions to produce complete videos.


______
Enjoy,

-Danny

http://www.cinelerra-cv.org